== link:index.html[Index] -> link:bundle.html[Cherokee Bundle]

Cherokee Bundle: cherokee-tweak
-------------------------------

This command-line tool is also not as well known as it would. Again
this is not by lack of merits, which in fact are considerable. Its
intended audience are also system administrators and developers.

`cherokee-tweak` is a swiss army knife that allows to perform several
administrative tasks from the command line. It can connect to a
running Cherokee instance, be it in the local computer or at a remote
location, and request it to perform several actions.

These actions are:

  * Log rotation: `logrotate`.

  * Live tracing: `trace`.

  * Provide information: `info`.


This is the full information provided by the manpage.
**********************************************************************
*NAME*::
       cherokee-tweak  - Command-line interface to the Cherokee administrative
       interface

*SYNOPSIS*::
       cherokee-tweak -c command -a url [options]

*DESCRIPTION*::
       cherokee-tweak connects to running cherokee instance, either  local  or
       remote, and requests it to perform one of several actions.

*OPTIONS*::
       cherokee-tweak accepts the following options:

       -h, --help;;
               Shows brief usage information

       -V, --version;;
               Prints version and exits

       -u, --user= STRING;;
               Specifies the user name with which to identify to the server

       -p, --password=STRING;;
               Specifies the password with which to identify to the server

       -c, --command=STRING;;
               Required option. Command to execute: logrotate, trace or info

       -a, --url=URL;;
               Required  option. URL where the administrative interface can be
               found.  This target must be  defined  previously  in  cherokee-
               admin, enabling a "Remote Administration" type handler (Virtual
               Servers->Behaviour->Add new  rule,  and  then  Handler->"Remote
               Administration").  The  definition of a security mechanisim is
               highly encouraged.

       -l, --log=PATH;;
               Log file to be rotated (Only to be used when -c is logrotate)

       -t, --trace=STRING;;
               Modules to be traced (Only to be used when -c is trace). Chero‚Äê
               kee must have been compiled with the --enable-trace for this to
               work. Everything traceable  with  CHEROKEE_TRACE  can  also  be
               traced this way.
**********************************************************************

To use `cherokee-tweak`, an administrative interface must be defined
within link:bundle_cherokee-admin.html[cherokee-admin]. That is, you
must define a path managed by the handler `Remote
Administration`. This can be done through the 'Virtual Servers' option,
in 'Behaviour' and using the 'Add new rule' option.

image::media/images/admin_handler_admin.png[Setting up an admin interface]

Please note that while you are at it, the definition of a security
(through the 'Security' tab) is highly encouraged. Although you have
the choice to, you should never use 'None' as security mechanisim
since this would leave your system exposed to third parties using
`cherokee-tweak`.

Also note that the usage of the `trace` command has no effect unless
Cherokee is compiled with the `--enable-trace`. This is a debugging
option and it is unlikely to be present in binary version of Cherokee
not specifically compiled with this in mind.

Every module traceable with CHEROKEE_TRACE can also be traced this
way. Refer to the link:dev_debug.html["Debugging"] section of the
documentation for more information on this matter.

Keep in mind one important thing: when the `-t` option is specificed,
`cherokee-tweak` activates the tracing functionality within the
`cherokee` instance. It does not provide tracing of its own. This
means the debugging information will appear in the machine that is
actually running the `cherokee` instance. This may or may not be the
same that is running the `cherokee-tweak` process.
