== link:index.html[Index] -> link:bundle.html[Cherokee Bundle]

cherokee-admin
--------------

This is the administration interface that allows for hassle-free,
simple and easy configuration of the Cherokee web server. It is the
only administration mechanism that should be to such task and is in
fact the only recommended option.

image::media/images/admin_index.png[Cherokee Admin interface]

If you want to access the administration interface from the same
computer that you installed cherokee on, simply start the
administration interface by running:


----
cherokee-admin
----

Then redirect your web browser to 127.0.0.1:9090, which is the default
address and port for the administration interface.

image::media/images/admin_launch.png[Cherokee admin interface]

If you want to access the administration interface from another
computer, the easiest solution is to bind the cherokee administration
interface to all network interfaces:

----
cherokee-admin -b
----

WARNING: By starting cherokee-admin listening on all interfaces,
everyone that can access the computer can alter your cherokee
configuration. Don't use this in a production environment! It is much
better to use 'ssh -L' in these cases.

Instead of binding it to every interface, we encourage you to use an
SSH tunnel. This is the recommended way. In order to do so you must
issue the following command:

----
ssh -L 9090:localhost:9090 remote_IP
----

After that you can access the remote interface through
http://localhost:9090 and every request will be forwarded to the
remote IP running cherokee-admin.

Of course these options can be combined to your heart's contempt.

.Example:
Make cherokee use a different configuration file, listen on port 9091
and grab the administration interface application from a different
path:

----
cherokee-admin -a -P 9091 -C /etc/cherokee/cherokee2.conf \
                 -d /path/to/svn/trunk/cherokee-admin/
----

This is the full information provided by the manpage.
**********************************************************************
*NAME*::
       `cherokee-admin` - Runs Cherokeeâ€™s administrative interface

*SYNOPSIS*::
       `cherokee-admin` [-d DIR] [-p PORT] [-C FILE] [-a]

*DESCRIPTION*::
       `cherokee-admin` runs the server for the administrative interface used to
       configure Cherokee. The interface itself will be available via your Web
       browser.

*OPTIONS*::
       `cherokee-admin` accepts the following options:

       -h, --help;;
               Shows brief usage information

       -V, --version;;
               Show version and exit

       -b, --bind[=IP];;
               By  default `cherokee-admin` binds only to 127.0.0.1 (localhost),
               which means you can only connect to it from  the  same  system.
               With this parameter you can specify the network address
               to listen to. If no IP is provided, it will bind to all
               interfaces.


       -C, --target=PATH;;
               Requests  a  configuration  file  different  than  the  default
               /etc/cherokee/cherokee.conf to be used

       -d, --appdir=DIR;;
               Uses a custom admin-interface path

       -p, --port=NUM;;
               Specifies an alternative port. By default, 9090.

**********************************************************************

Refer to the link:config_walkthrough.html[configuration section] for
more in-depth explanations of the usage of the interface as a
configuration tool.
