== link:index.html[Index] -> link:cookbook.html[Cookbook]
///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
Last checked:
* Cherokee 0.99.25
* Zend     1.9.3PL1
///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

Cookbook: Setting up Zend Framework
-----------------------------------

The link:http://framework.zend.com/[Zend Framework] is a PHP framework
focused on building more secure, reliable, and modern Web 2.0
applications & web services.

It is essential that Cherokee supports PHP before starting with this
recipe. That should not be a problem since it comes preconfigured by
default. However, you can follow the link:cookbook_php.html[setting up
PHP] recipe for further hints on fine tuning this feature.

To make sure the recipe works, we'll be using the demo provided by the
link:http://framework.zend.com/docs/quickstart[Zend Framework
Quickstart]. Last time this document was edited, it was
link:http://framework.zend.com/demos/ZendFrameworkQuickstart-20090430.tar.gz[demo
20090430].

Uncompress its contents to a directory and set up the `public`
subdirectory as your web document root. In our example, it will be
`/var/www/demo/public`.

----
user@cherokee:/var/www/demo$ ls
application  data  library  public  scripts
----

The `library` directory is empty and should contain the Zend Framework
files. Download it from the
link:http://framework.zend.com/download[official page] and copy it to
the appropriate location. Follow the Quickstart for more details on
setting up the framework. We will concentrate on the Cherokee side.

So now that we have the files in place, we'll just create the needed
rules for the web server. Specially important will be the rewrite
rules. From the Zend Framework

*********************************************************************

This set of rewrite rules specify that if the file exists under the
document root directory, it should simply be served as a static
resource. Otherwise, the request is for dynamic content and should be
rewritten to our index.php script. Since all requests for non-static
content will be rewritten to it, the index.php script serves as the
entry point to our application.

*********************************************************************

[[wizard_configuration]]
Configure Cherokee using the Wizard
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Cherokee is shipped with a configuration `Wizard` that can be used
both to deploy the application under a dedicated `Virtual Server` and
under a web folder from one already existent.

Launch cherokee-admin, and proceed to the
link:config_virtual_servers.html[Virtual servers] section.

Now you can either enter the chosen one to install under a web folder,
or directly click on the `Add` button of the `Virtual Servers` panel
to create a customised virtual server. In any case you will find the
wizard under the `Platforms` category.


After that you will be asked for the minimal information required to
correctly configure your server in a totally transparent way.

And that's it. You are done with the configuration! You can now access
your application. The demo provided by Zend will look like this:

image::media/images/cookbook_zend1.png[Demo]

Of course, you'll have to follow the complete tutorial if you expect
it to work as intended.
