== link:index.html[Index] -> link:dev.html[Development info]

Development: Open issues
------------------------

This document mantains a list of currently open issues. It mostly is
useful to list things of the Cherokee Project that are known to be
half-baked, and as such are only of interest for developers.

FastCGI Handler
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are two handlers currently implementing the FastCGI protocol:
"fcgi" and "fastcgi".

The "fastcgi" module also implements the FastCGI protocol. It is a
more complete implementation than "fcgi" although it is also more
complex. Actually, fcgi became the standard choice because the PHP
interpreter is kind of buggy when it has to demultiplex multiple
requests from the same socket. As such, it is the only one supported
by Cherokee-Admin.

The "fastcgi" handler will eventually become the default option
because it is faster and more standard-compliant. However, at the
moment "fcgi" is a better option.

Reverse Proxy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The reverse proxy is currently one of the most demanded features and
is under heavy development. No code is currently available in the
public repository.

Configuration Wizards
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Another interesting feature not yet reflected in the repository is a
project aimed at providing configuration wizards as an easy way to
deploy a set of standard applications. The idea is to select an
application from the list and let the wizard configure Cherokee to be
able to run one such application -say Wordpress, for instance-.

Even though the obtained configuration will most probably not be
perfect, it will always be a good starting point to play with for
further tuning.

